src/app/docs/executable-state/page.mdx, before:

# Executable State

As you may have seen in the [Derived State](/docs/derived-state) section, objects can include functions as keys.

This isn’t new — it’s just JavaScript. And with `useS`, you can:

- Store and render React components directly from state
- Control or transform values without relying on `setState`
- Derive one key’s value from another

---

> ⚠️ **Note:** `useS v2.0.0` does **not** compare function-type object keys (such as funtion(), getters, setters, or React components)
> with their previous values. As a result, updating these keys — whether assigning a new function or the same one —
> will always trigger a state update and re-render. This behavior aligns with React's default handling of function references.

---

## 🧱 Store and Share Components via State

React allows passing components through `children` or `render props`.

But with `useS`, you can embed components inside state and modify them dynamically — no props needed.

### Example `store.ts`

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="store.ts" copy /Component/
export type StoreType = { ... };

export const store: StoreType = {
  globalExecutableState: {
    value: {
      show: false,
      ComponentC() {
        return <>Hello</>;
      },
      ComponentD: function () {
        return <>Bye</>;
      },
    },
    key: "global-executable-state",
  },
};
```

---

Component A

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="ComponentA.tsx" copy /Component/
import { useS } from "use-s-react";
import { store } from "./store.ts";

export default function ComponentA() {
  const [{ show, ComponentC, ComponentD }, setState] = useS(
    store.globalExecutableState
  );

  return (
    <div>
      {show ? ComponentD() : ComponentC()}

      <button
        onClick={() =>
          setState({
            ComponentC: function () {
              return <>Hi Friend</>;
            },
          })
        }
      >
        Change default greeting
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

---

Component B

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="ComponentB.tsx" copy /Component/
import { useS } from "use-s-react";
import { store } from "./store.ts";

export default function ComponentB() {
  const [{ ComponentC }, setState] = useS(store.globalExecutableState);

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={() => setState((prev) => ({ show: !prev.show }))}>
        Toggle visibility of components C and D in A
      </button>
      ComponentC: {ComponentC()}
    </div>
  );
}
```

This pattern enables reactive UI without props. You can even call nested components with arguments, or return full components from within state functions.

---

## 🧪 Updating Function Keys

Yes — you can also **update** function properties in your state:

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="Component.tsx" copy /thanks/
import { useS } from "use-s-react";

type CartType = { ... };

const initialValue: CartType = { ... };

export default function Component() {
  const [{ cart, total, thanks }, setState] = useS(initialValue);

  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{thanks(total(cart))}</h3>

      <button
        onClick={() =>
          setState(() => ({
            thanks: function (total: number) {
              return `Thank you, but you should spend more than: ${total} :)`;
            },
          }))
        }
      >
        Say spend more
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

This example updates the `thanks` function dynamically — something most libraries don’t support out of the box.


## 🔐 Private State via Getters and Setters

You can also use objects with `get` and `set` methods in `useS`:

```ts showLineNumbers copy {2,8-15}
const User = {
  _name: "John",
  lastName: "Doe",
  age: 29,
  greeting() {
    return "Hello, how are you?";
  },
  get name() {
    return this._name === "John"
      ? `${this._name} ${this.lastName}`
      : this._name;
  },
  set name(newValue) {
    this._name = newValue + " M. ";
  },
};
```

These accessors add abstraction to your state — and `useS` fully preserves them.

---

### Example with Get/Set in React

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="GetSet.tsx" copy {10, 13}
import { useS } from "use-s-react";

const User = { ... };

export default function GetSet() {
  const [state, setState] = useS(User);

  return (
    <div>
      {state.name}

      <button onClick={() => setState({ name: "J" })}>
        Change name
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Try removing the `get name()` method and watch `state.name` disappear — proving that `useS` respects object behavior.

> With this approach, you can design **private APIs**, computed state, and reactive logic — all using plain objects and **JavaScript**.

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for v2.1.0 release

src/app/docs/executable-state/page.mdx, after:

# Executable State (For deep-divers only)

As you may have seen in the [Derived State](/docs/derived-state) section, objects can include functions as keys.

This isn’t new — it’s just JavaScript. And with `useS`, you can:

- Store and render React components directly from state
- Control or transform values without relying on `setState`
- Derive one key’s value from another

---

> ⚠️ **Note:** `useS v2.1.0` **Does** compare function-type values.
> In most cases, if function memory references are not handled correctly,
> the comparison will likely result in them being different, causing a re-render.
> This behavior is consistent with React's default handling of function references.

---

## 🧱 Store and Share Components via State

React allows passing components through `children` or `render props`.

But with `useS`, you can embed components inside state and modify them dynamically — no props needed.

### Example `store.ts`

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="store.ts" copy /Component/
export type StoreType = { ... };

export const store: StoreType = {
  globalExecutableState: {
    value: {
      show: false,
      ComponentC() {
        return <>Hello</>;
      },
      ComponentD: function () {
        return <>Bye</>;
      },
    },
    key: "global-executable-state",
  },
};
```

---

Component A

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="ComponentA.tsx" copy /Component/
import { useS } from "use-s-react";
import { store } from "./store.ts";

export default function ComponentA() {
  const [{ show, ComponentC, ComponentD }, setState] = useS(
    store.globalExecutableState
  );

  return (
    <div>
      {show ? ComponentD() : ComponentC()}

      <button
        onClick={() =>
          setState({
            ComponentC: function () {
              return <>Hi Friend</>;
            },
          })
        }
      >
        Change default greeting
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

---

Component B

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="ComponentB.tsx" copy /Component/
import { useS } from "use-s-react";
import { store } from "./store.ts";

export default function ComponentB() {
  const [{ ComponentC }, setState] = useS(store.globalExecutableState);

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={() => setState((prev) => ({ show: !prev.show }))}>
        Toggle visibility of components C and D in A
      </button>
      ComponentC: {ComponentC()}
    </div>
  );
}
```

This pattern enables reactive UI without props. You can even call nested components with arguments, or return full components from within state functions.

---

## 🧪 Updating Function Keys

Yes — you can also **update** function properties in your state:

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="Component.tsx" copy /thanks/
import { useS } from "use-s-react";

type CartType = { ... };

const initialValue: CartType = { ... };

export default function Component() {
  const [{ cart, total, thanks }, setState] = useS(initialValue);

  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{thanks(total(cart))}</h3>

      <button
        onClick={() =>
          setState(() => ({
            thanks: function (total: number) {
              return `Thank you, but you should spend more than: ${total} :)`;
            },
          }))
        }
      >
        Say spend more
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

This example updates the `thanks` function dynamically — something most libraries don’t support out of the box.


## 🔐 Private State via Getters and Setters

You can also use objects with `get` and `set` methods in `useS`:

```ts showLineNumbers copy {2,8-15}
const User = {
  _name: "John",
  lastName: "Doe",
  age: 29,
  greeting() {
    return "Hello, how are you?";
  },
  get name() {
    return this._name === "John"
      ? `${this._name} ${this.lastName}`
      : this._name;
  },
  set name(newValue) {
    this._name = newValue + " M. ";
  },
};
```

These accessors add abstraction to your state — and `useS` fully preserves them.

---

### Example with Get/Set in React

```tsx showLineNumbers filename="GetSet.tsx" copy {10, 13}
import { useS } from "use-s-react";

const User = { ... };

export default function GetSet() {
  const [state, setState] = useS(User);

  return (
    <div>
      {state.name}

      <button onClick={() => setState({ name: "J" })}>
        Change name
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Try removing the `get name()` method and watch `state.name` disappear — proving that `useS` respects object behavior.

> With this approach, you can design **private APIs**, computed state, and reactive logic — all using plain objects and **JavaScript**.
